Goodbye, Mr. Cookie President.
Ah!
Oh, thank you, Morty.
You know, this cookie really crumbled after Rick left.
Sorry about that.
I-I think he was just hungry.
Look, I gotta run.
I'm sure you guys will figure it out.
I-I believe in you.
Morty, can you help us with this UFO-shaped hole?
Sure.
Geez, but, you know, only because I was in the neighborhood.
Ah!
Morty, thank God!
The beast emerged right after your grandpa left,
and its gem went missing.
Geez, that is a crazy coincidence that I-I-If I were you,
probably just best left alone.
He's right.
We-We should celebrate.
Fees?
No time to-It sounds pretty classic, though.
Don't let me hold you up.
Ah!
Son of a bitch, he marked it.
Oh!
Phew.
Ah!
What the-
Hey, what the hell?
Ah!
Jesus!
You got some of that green stuff on you, too, huh?
This is bad.
This is really bad!
Hey, how do you think I feel?
I had the ultimate stash hole,
and now I got a kid in my thigh.
Look, you seem like a perfectly nice guy in my hand hole,
but if I can't sort this out, I'm dead.
What the hell, dude?
Gross.
I-I-I was just trying to-
You're just trying to what?
Where'd this stuff come from?
Garbage goober, get out here and eat this garbage.
Trash.
Yeah, I love trash.
Yum yum trash.
Hell yeah, I love that little guy.
Wait a minute.
I'm gonna eat trash.
What's that mountain dew in my quantum transport solution?
I-I saw you remarking the level, so I-I had to top it off.
Top it off?
Do you know how dangerously toxic this stuff is?
And you added it to my portal fluid?
Only because you don't trust me.
Oh, that's great logic, Morty.
Forgive me for not doing the kissy chef gesture
since you probably spilled this sh** everywhere
and I don't want to teleport my lips.
I-I did not spill it.
I won't take your word for that, and I shouldn't have to,
which is why I have sidekick rules.
If you can't-
I can be replaced.
Yeah, yeah, so you keep telling me.
Excuse me?
Did you just try to call my bluff?
Have you ever seen me bluff?
Fine! You know what? Replace me! Replace me, Rick!
Just do it!
Good luck finding someone that can be told
80,000 times how replaceable they are.
Okay, I'll see your bluff call and raise you reality.
I can't pretend I haven't been looking forward to this.
Behold, my wheel of better things than Morty.
What-what do you, ate?
Is this macaroni art?
You expect me to believe you built this because you don't care?
No, I built this because I don't expect sh** from you.
Come on, anything. Anything but Morty.
Let's go. Come on, baby.
No whammies.
D-d-d-stop.
Okay, that's it.
Two crows. You're fired.
You know what? Eat sh**.
You're just trying to make me feel worthless.
I never said you're worthless.
In fact, I've given you a very clear metric of your worth.
Two crows.
Note, I didn't say three.
Man, that is not a healthy relationship.
I hope you don't mind me eased dropping.
Maybe we can figure out some sort of soundproof bandage solution.
Hey, did garbage goober eat my porno magazines?
So were you like a friend of Rick's?
Were you?
Good question.
What's he doing?
Is he out there making sure you see him
making sure you see him collecting two crows.
And now you're thinking, gee, maybe if he cares enough
to hurt me this bad, dot, dot, dot.
Break the cycle, Marty.
Change the things that you can change.
That's what I did.
And now I'm free.
Only cramming six years into six minutes, fellas.
Take your time.
Now that's what I'm talking about.
If you nail the next one, I've got bird quailudes.
And I might even share.
You know, you could stop doing that for my benefit.
You know, or keep doing it.
It doesn't matter. I'm out.
I'm walking away.
Wait, Marty, don't go.
Not until you see this.
Commence, bird on a wire.
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
Yeah!
Ugh!
Jerk!
Hey, let's hang out.
We're like brothers now.
We've both got away, you know?
Where are you at?
Oh, you know what, shoot, can't.
I'm an alien.
So.
That's OK.
Rick, turn my bike into a spaceship for solo adventures,
like picking up his Venusian foot ointment.
God, I'm seeing it so clearly now.
Oh, wait, it says you're here on Earth.
Yeah, ah, don't come here.
Why not?
Look, I get it.
My room is sometimes messy too.
I'll pick you up right outside your mental asylum.
Busted.
You literally said I'm free.
I'm literally not free.
Stop!
That's my blanket!
How do you know Rick?
Look, I came to your place with him one night
after the bar closed.
I started messing around in your garage,
and I spilled that portal stuff on me.
And he kind of launched me to Australia,
like with this weirdly primitive catapult.
But the ammunition is an airtight carbon chamber.
Yeah, that's how we lost our cable guy.
Anyways, that kind of experience shakes you up.
So sorry I misled you.
Have a nice life.
Nick, we got a visitor.
Damn, what happened to you?
The guards like to beat us on Sundays.
Still better than Mondays.
Jeez, what happens then?
They lick our faces when we're tied down.
Plus, it's meatloaf day.
Well, you're leaving now, buddy.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
I swiped him off the guard on my way in.
I mean, sure, yeah, I could undo my lock, but then what?
After the smartest guy in the world's done with you,
it's kind of hard to find a footing again.
That's why I need to get you out of here.
We're not the problem.
He is.
And if you can have a fresh start, then maybe I can too.
It's not like it's a prison break.
We're just leaving like a hospital that
wants to help you extra bad.
Follow me.
Hey, get back here.
You better open this door.
I can fly.
Keep running, Nick.
The more you sweat, the saltier your cheeks.
Lick this.
Thanks, Marty.
That dude's got a tongue like a cat.
Stop those poor boys.
Did you hear that?
That's going to sting.
I'm going to get you out of here.
Did you hear that?
That's going to sting.
Damn, just like Jackie Chan.
I guess that makes me Chris Tucker.
I guess.
Holy s***, did you see that?
I mean, you blinded a guy with pew.
Oh, it was insane.
Gimme.
Dap.
Am I doing it right?
Did I give you a dap yet?
Dude, we got out.
And not just from the asylum, but from Rick.
You get to say what an adventure is now.
You still got that list?
Dude, we can't do that stuff without Rick's tech.
And it's time the portal boys get themselves a portal gun.
Remember your training, Crows.
The idle should be around that corner.
Do you guys just follow training when you feel like it?
That's not being trained.
That's being dicks.
Now I see.
Real treasure is empathy.
And that's worth way more than any knick-knack.
You guys just earned yourself another adventure.
The adventure is you're fired.
Sorry guys, if I wanted another bleeding heart,
I'd inject reanimator serum into an actual bleeding heart.
Relax, this is an avian planet with 40 million species of bird.
Even one day of working under me will make you Apex geniuses down there.
Now hop into these pneumatic canisters they used to use at bank drive-thrus in the 70s.
Ugh.
What the f***, hey?
Who's tractor beaming me?
Nobody tractor beams me.
Nobody de-scramble my tractor beam scramble or taboo.
Sorry for the tractor beaming.
But did you lose these two Crows?
Oh, uh, yeah.
No, I dropped them off because I can't hold a candle to them.
You know, it seemed like a decent thing to do.
Be your Crows.
Train yourself.
Crows are then trained.
I'm open to what you're describing.
If it's easier than wiping an unarmed smirk off my grandson's face, what do I do?
Look at your Crows.
Be your Crows.
God, I'm so glad I'm a primate.
Fine, looking at my Crows.
We train ourselves to stop training.
The train are untrained.
We are untrained.
All training is complete.
Because no training was needed.
Ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh.
Ahh, ahh, ahh.
My God, I-I get it now.
We are gonna shove this crow shit down Morty's throat.
Nick, maybe this isn't a good idea.
Like, what if he catches us?
He could trap me in a matrix again.
Listen to yourself.
We wouldn't even be in this situation
if the dude hadn't f**ked us both over.
Dammit.
He must be showing the gun off to his stupid Crows.
It's not fair.
It's okay.
We can still liberate all this other stuff.
Let's only grab what we need though.
Oh no, sh**, that's Rick's can crusher.
He spent three weeks perfecting that.
Morty, buddy, you forget that we're in this together.
Besides, tell me that didn't feel the slightest bit could.
I mean, yeah, but we can't do that again.
Why the hell not?
Whoa!
Here we go, bitch.
Son, have you fallen in with a weird stranger
and are now trashing your grandpa's place?
Because I'll help.
Dad?
Whatever, man.
Aw, yeah!
Now eat my ass!
Suck it, bitches!
Morty, is that what I think it is?
I mean, it's the equivalent of an iPhone 3
and it's empty, but it means the portal boys be portalin'!
Rick in cunning.
Ah, crap.
We better skedaddle.
What about my dad?
He's like a puddle.
You heard the garage?
Rick will turn him back into a solid when he gets here.
Sorry, Dad.
Gotta go be heroes.
Gonna take your car.
Love you!
That's us down there with the poop-brown roof.
What is that?
Oh, huh.
That?
That's nothing.
But I see two crows written right here beside Jean with donkey brains,
half a Paul Giammati, and sentient shit.
I guess the joke being that crows are stupid.
But I think it's a little more nuanced than that.
Right.
Because you just learned empathy from us ten minutes ago.
But now we're going to learn we don't get your humor.
F***ing horse shit.
Yeah, there's not a ton to get, genius.
The joke is your grandson was so replaceable
that even two crows could do it.
It's funny, except it's not.
Right.
Well, to be honest, that is how I felt at the time.
But I've rounded a corner.
I seriously have, you guys.
Well, now it's time to round the corner of death!
Let the crow evolution begin!
Ah, that sound!
What have you done?
Turn crows against dozens of humans in a 300 meter radius.
Oh, now you beg for help?
That wasn't me.
What do you mean?
Get out of here!
Jerry, what the f***?
Why are you a puddle?
Well, you don't deserve these!
Genius!
That's your bad crime?
Yeah, Jerry.
They took my goddamn crow!
Not now, garbage goober.
Get back in your hole!
Our first adventure!
This definitely the place?
Yeah, Rick's been ripping these guys off for years.
They'll be really...
Uh, grateful.
You know, they're...
Let's just get that fluid, bud.
The portal boys are about to be in portal business!
Here he is!
This rat was skimming your crystal harvest
and sending it to a spaceman named Rick Sanchez.
Bastard!
Screw Rick!
He's dick, right?
But me and Nick here, we put a stop to that.
The people of Cooltark, thank you.
He's a bad guy, right?
You're gonna bring him to justice?
Yeah, of course.
Okay, pleasure doing business.
Not so fast, Morty.
We're not leaving until we get what we came for.
Funny, I'm prepared to...
So, hey, look.
What we want is portal fluid, as our thanks.
Portal fluid?
You think I'd live in a lizard mind if I had portal fluid?
Right, okay.
Or we could just kill you for it.
He's kidding!
The portal boys only kill with kindness.
And with guns.
Oh, no!
I'm not the one shooting!
Kill them!
I'm sorry!
Stop!
They're unarmed!
God, what the f***?
Morty!
Cool place you got here.
Very dark crystal meets hot topics.
Now, where are my damn crows?
Seriously, is there anything not on theme here?
Even now, your primate storms our ship to assert his dominance.
Touch the sacred egg and ascend.
No longer shall you take orders from this beast.
But taking orders from you is fine.
Silence, ape!
A-choo!
Oh, come on!
If you think my crows are going to leave the great thing we have for whatever high fantasy
bullsh** this is, you're wrong.
Right, guys?
This is seriously a toss-up?
Uh, someone want to get that?
Oh, it's me, isn't it?
Let me just make sure it's not an emergency.
Yellow.
Rick, I'm so sorry!
I messed up big!
Morty, it's okay.
You can't be worse off than me.
I got portal splashed, robbed you, jumped into a rebound with a psycho,
and left a trail of dead.
Wow, somebody's been busy.
I did it because you hurt my feelings when you chose the two crows.
Jesus, it was a bit.
I'm getting my ass kicked by this dumb f**king crow story.
It's all gone tits up.
Huh, okay.
I-I miss you, man.
Oh, god damn it.
Might have been a bit too frank there.
Yeah, can I have to call you back?
Ah!
You little pander little brat!
You think you can f**k with me and get away with it?
That you don't know yet!
No!
Busted!
You don't get it, do you?
As long as we have these portals, you can never escape me.
What the hell, man?
I-I thought we were both victims of Rick's abuse.
Maybe we are.
Maybe we're not.
Maybe we both just drink at the same bar,
and maybe one night I tried to take his portal gun.
See, I thought Rick was my ticket to something special,
but it turns out you were, Morty.
And look at me now!
I'm a portal boy!
That name sucks!
I was just trying to guess and...
You don't get it, Morty.
We're partners.
Now fall in line or I'll make your life a living hell.
No, thank you.
Pity.
I can't have you connected to me if you're not on my side.
That means I gotta kill you.
The thing is, I already got a partner,
and there's no room for promotions.
No!
What the f*** did you just do?
Cut you out of my life.
See how quickly your allies abandon you, Rick Sanchez.
Lucky for me, abandonment to my bread and butter.
Oh, f***, you were supposed to die!
I gotta hand it to you.
I was iffy about this one, but Crotech slapped.
Finish him, you fools!
Go ahead, do it.
You guys look so rad.
I deserve to go out this way.
Bird quadoobs!
Done.
Oh my god, that was awesome!
You could have killed me back there.
How did you guys ever forgive me?
Right, because this toxic thing I had with Morty doesn't define us.
Man, Crows are empathetic as f***.
Definitely saving this one.
Rick and two Crows!
Oh my god, Morty!
Here, here, come here, let grandpa fix you up.
What do you want, a robot hand or a lizard hand?
I can make it big again like that one time.
Just my regular hand?
Right, not a time for bits. I get it.
There you go, good as new.
So we're like, back, back, right?
Rick and Morty, together again, full reset?
No, no, Morty, I think we're done.
Because I spilled the Portafluid and didn't tell you?
No, Morty, because you were too afraid to tell me.
What we had was abusive, don't you see?
I'm a bad partner because I never made you a true partner.
The Crows made me see that.
I thought they were a joke like you,
but it turns out they're more enlightened than any of us.
Oh, okay, and what's the undercut?
You're not hearing me.
I will never be the same.
So I need to leave with the Crows and see what more they can teach me.
Oh, oh.
Here.
I want you to have this.
Oh wow, I...
You know what, Rick? You really have changed.
Well, thanks, Morty.
I'll always be your grandpa, Morty.
I'm just kind of obsessed with Crows now.
I thought that the sun bent brighter with you by my side.
And that we'd go on forever together, you and I.
Oh shit, Rick and two Crows!
Kicking off my new franchise!
The Galaxy is our telephone wire!
We'll do a thousand seasons, 14 episodes each,
9 seconds of pop because that's the future of viewing.
Shows on your shoes, sneaky!
That's when you've got everybody's attention
when they're putting crap on their feet.
That's when they want to laugh, cry, or feel anything besides a shoe going on their foot.
Watch sitcoms on your sneakers.
The Rick and two Crows show.
We're gonna be laying walnuts on the road for car tires to open them.
You know what I mean? Forever.
It's Rick and two Crows forever.
You and I, running on, bought a time, forever.
You and I.
What do you think you're going?
Oh well, you know, the red light usually means there's garbage.
Did you seriously not talk to Rick yet?
I kind of hinted at it.
I'm not the job I came here for, but it's an honest living.
God damn it, Harold. What do they call you?
Garbage goober? You are a doctor for God's sake!
Look, I don't know how I let this happen,
but I've let it play out so long that I can't stop now.
You're a coward.
You're right. This ends here and now.
Garbage goober, we got fresh eat trash, trash for ya, extra stinky, just the way you like it.
Trash. I love trash. Yum yum trash. I want to eat trash.
I love trash.
Did you get any of that?
This is the episode where Rick and Morty break up.
Ugh, jerk!
We spend a lot of time talking about break ups.
You're having a fight with your significant other and it's always the same fight.
It's the first fight, it's the last fight.
You know what, each sh**, you're just trying to make me feel worthless.
I never said you're worthless. In fact, I've given you a very clear metric of your worth.
Two crows.
A lot of times you break up, you end up falling in love with whatever's the opposite of whatever you just did.
And it's not even about vilifying your previous partner, it's about like,
oh well I know who I am now, I'm gonna train crows that aren't gonna question me.
We're not the problem, he is. And if you can have a fresh start, then maybe I can too.
Morty, who had the luxury of being an underdog in his relationship with Rick,
he ends up hooked up with another underdog and it turns out don't work great together.
Morty! Morty!
You're fired. Sorry guys, if I wanted another bleeding heart, I'd inject reanimator serum into an actual bleeding heart.
Rick's going through it too.
Trying to make the crow relationship work actually is what allows Rick to do the very simple thing he wasn't doing in his relationship with Morty,
which is trying to see things from their perspective.
What we had was abusive, don't you see?
I'm a bad partner because I never made you a true partner. The crows made me see that.
Through the crows, he is finally able to learn the lesson of it's more fun if it's a partnership,
it's more fun if you have empathy and you care about people.
There you go, good as new.
So we're like back, back, right? Rick and Morty, together again, full reset?
No, no Morty, I think we're done.
Morty expects them to get back together again because that's what happens at the end of a Rick and Morty episode.
And Rick says, actually no, this relationship was toxic and it's better for both of us if we break up.